Add fast-track policy for packages with an existing publication (#374)
pyOpenSci/software-peer-review: about/package-scope.md

- requires at least 1 domain specialist
- will never vet the analytical method itself.

> 2. If your package introduces a novel or newer analytic approach that is **not yet vetted/accepted by a scientific journal**, we cannot review it. We cannot review projects that exist as a proof-of-concept demonstration of a model or analytical approach that might accompany a paper. In this case, the approach should be submitted to a scientific journal for vetting first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. For packages that introduce a novel or newer analytic approach, we cannot review them unless they are already **vetted/accepted by a scientific journal**. We cannot review projects that exist as a proof-of-concept demonstration of a model or analytical approach that might accompany a paper. If your package falls into this case, please submit it to a scientific journal for vetting before asking for review here.
```

> 2. For packages that introduce a novel or newer analytic approach, we cannot review them unless they are already **vetted/accepted by a scientific journal**. We cannot review projects that exist as a proof-of-concept demonstration of a model or analytical approach that might accompany a paper. If your package falls into this case, please submit it to a scientific journal for vetting before asking for review here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. We cannot review a package that introduces a new or novel analytic approach unless they have already been **vetted or accepted by a scientific journal**. We also cannot review projects that serve as proof-of-concept demonstrations of a model or analytical approach that might accompany a paper. If your package falls under either of these cases, please submit it to a scientific journal for peer review before requesting a review here.
```

> 3. If your package implements a novel approach that **has** been peer-reviewed and accepted by a credible scientific journal, it may be eligible for our [publication fast-track review](publication-fast-track). Fast-track review is a streamlined review process focused on software quality and packaging standards, performed by one reviewer rather than the usual two. Since the domain/scientific component has already been vetted by the journal, the pyOpenSci fast-track reviewer is not expected to re-evaluate the underlying scientific method. Please submit a pre-submission inquiry first and include the publication details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If your package implements a novel approach that **has** been peer-reviewed and accepted by a credible scientific journal, it may be eligible for our [publication fast-track review](publication-fast-track). Fast-track review is a streamlined review process focused on software quality and packaging standards. A fast-track review is performed by one reviewer rather than two, focusing solely on packaging rather than the scientific methods applied. Since the domain/scientific component has already been vetted by the journal, the pyOpenSci fast-track reviewer is not expected to re-evaluate the underlying scientific method. To apply for the fast track route, please first submit a pre-submission inquiry and include the publication details.
```

:::{note}
This fast-track pathway for packages with an associated publication is a policy update. Previously, packages proposing novel methods were declined regardless of publication status, as pyOpenSci does not have the capacity to vet new scientific approaches itself. The fast-track pathway resolves this by relying on the journal's review of the science and focusing our review on packaging quality and usability.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If your package implements a novel approach that **has** been peer-reviewed and accepted by a credible scientific journal, it may be eligible for our [publication fast-track review](publication-fast-track). Fast-track review is a streamlined review process focused on software quality and packaging standards, performed by one reviewer rather than the usual two. Since the domain/scientific component has already been vetted by the journal, the pyOpenSci fast-track reviewer is not expected to re-evaluate the underlying scientific method. Please submit a pre-submission inquiry first and include the publication details.

:::{note}
This fast-track pathway for packages with an associated publication is a policy update. Previously, packages proposing novel methods were declined regardless of publication status, as pyOpenSci does not have the capacity to vet new scientific approaches itself. The fast-track pathway resolves this by relying on the journal's review of the science and pyOpenSci focusing our review on packaging quality and usability.
:::
```

> This fast-track pathway for packages with an associated publication is a policy update. Previously, packages proposing novel methods were declined regardless of publication status, as pyOpenSci does not have the capacity to vet new scientific approaches itself. The fast-track pathway resolves this by relying on the journal's review of the science and pyOpenSci focusing our review on packaging quality and usability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This fast-track pathway for packages with an associated scientific publication is a policy update that took effect in May 2026. Previously, we declined packages proposing novel methods, regardless of publication status, because pyOpenSci doesn't have the capacity to vet new scientific approaches itself. The fast-track pathway resolves this by relying on a scientific journal's review of the scientific methodology. pyOpenSci then focuses our review on packaging quality and usability.
```
